PART 3: ANALYTICAL / THINKING TASKS

1. Your school network is slow. List 3 possible reasons related to:
   - Devices
    NIC is overwhelmed
    CPU is not able to process the incoming packets
    The hardware is not good enough to load the contents

   - Network type
    LAN is not configured properly
    MAN headquarters are limiting the bandwidth
    WAN provider is limiting the speed of your connection

   - Media (cables/Wi-Fi)
    Wireless over a long distance could cause connectivity issues
    Wired network might have physical weak spots
    Satelite network is widely accessible, but with very limiting conditions

2. When would you choose:
   - Fiber over Ethernet?
    when speed matters most
   - Ethernet over Wi-Fi?
    when the host will need constant heavy-load work to do with network, usually servers

3. Why is mesh topology rarely used in home networks?
    too expensive

4. If all devices in a network have private IPs, how do they access the internet?
    with default gateway that is working over double NAT is some cases.

5. What would happen if DNS did not exist?
    we would need to remember raw addresses of every server we would ever need

6. Why is HTTPS more secure than HTTP?
    it uses tls/ssl certificates for securing the transmitted data

7. If port 80 is blocked, what happens when you try to open a website?
    you wouldnt get the response as the listening port is blocked

8. Imagine you are designing a network for a small office (10 people):
   - What topology would you use?
   star
   - What devices are needed?
   switch and/or router
   - Wired or wireless?
   Wired

9. Why is IPv6 important for the future?
    IPv4 has very tight limitations in quantity terms also mentioning the growing need for more public IP addresses. IPv6 is the next generation protocol that will support humanity for many years ahead
    
10. Explain a real-life example of client-server communication using HTTP.
    client sends a http request to Picsart.communication
    through many networking devices the request finally reaches the server
    the server answers with response packet that is once again sent over many devices
    the client gets the response and loads it on the screen